README.md, before:

# nginx-tls-terminator

![build](https://github.com/anderseknert/nginx-tls-terminator/workflows/build/badge.svg)

Single-purpose TLS terminating nginx proxy.

Primary function is to run as a sidecar container in kubernetes pods where the app running in the main container either does not support TLS, or it's inconvenient to add it - such as for legacy apps or where the code is not under your control. Another common use case is when external traffic has TLS terminated by the ingress controller but some internal services need to reach the same services from the inside on the same URL. One example of this is the issuer URL provided in OAuth2 and OpenID Connect, where both external and internal applications will need to query the same endpoints over a secure channel.

Features:
* Small single-purpose container at ~9 MB with minimal configuration needed.
* Does not require root privileges and runs as non-root user by default. Runs with strictest `securityContext` configured on container.
* Running with a read-only root filesystem as easy as mounting a volume on `/tmp`.
* Exposed TLS port as well as target upstream port configurable through environment variables.

## Usage instructions

### Obtaining a certificate

The first step to enable TLS for your service is to obtain a certificate. This can be done in a number of ways, such as:

* Using an established certificate authority, such as [Let's Encrypt](https://letsencrypt.org/).
* Generating a self-signed certificate (for testing).

More info on obtaining a certificate for use in kubernetes can be found in the [kubernetes docs](https://kubernetes.io/docs/tasks/tls/managing-tls-in-a-cluster/).

### Storing the certificate

Once a certificate has been obtained, you'll need to store it somewhere where the nginx-tls-terminatr can find it - normally a [kubernetes secret](https://kubernetes.io/docs/concepts/configuration/secret/). The secret consists of the certificate (`tls.crt`) and a signing key (`tls.key`) and is easily created with kubectl.

```shell
kubectl create secret tls tls-terminator-cert \
        --cert=path/to/cert/tls.crt \
        --key=path/to/cert/tls.key
```

### Adding the nginx-tls-terminator sidecar container

We'll now need to edit the deployment responsible for the pod you'll want to patch with TLS terminating capabilities. Given an example deployment like this:

```yaml
apiVersion: apps/v1
kind: Deployment
metadata:
  name: my-awesome-app
  labels:
    app: my-awesome-app
spec:
  selector:
    matchLabels:
      app: my-awesome-app
  template:
    metadata:
      labels:
        app: my-awesome-app
    spec:
      volumes:
      - name: tls-terminator-cert
        secret:
          secretName: tls-terminator-cert
      - name: tmp
        emptyDir: {}
      containers:
      - name: my-awesome-app-container
        image: my-awesome-app:1.2.3
        ports:
        - containerPort: 80
```

We will patch the pod spec to both mount the secret we created and of course inject our TLS terminating sidecar container. First, let's add the secret to our pod spec (under `spec.template.spec`):

```yaml
volumes:
- name: tls-terminator-cert
  secret:
    secretName: tls-terminator-cert
```
Then, add the nginx-tls-terminator sidecar container mounting the secret volume created above (under `spec.template.spec.containers`):

```yaml
- name: nginx-tls-terminator
  image: eknert/nginx-tls-terminator:0.3.0
  ports:
  - containerPort: 8443
  volumeMounts:
  - mountPath: /etc/nginx/ssl
    name: tls-terminator-cert
    readOnly: true
  - mountPath: /tmp
    name: tmp
  securityContext:
    allowPrivilegeEscalation: false
    runAsNonRoot: true
    runAsUser: 2000
    runAsGroup: 2000
    readOnlyRootFilesystem: true
    capabilities:
      drop:
      - all
  env:
  - name: PROXY_LISTEN_PORT
    value: "1234" # OPTIONAL: Defaults to 8443
  - name: PROXY_UPSTREAM_PORT
    value: "80"   # OPTIONAL: Default to 8080
```

### Kustomize

Repeating the above steps for multiple deployments is bound to be time consuming. We can both structure and simplify the process with the help of [kustomize](https://kustomize.io/). An example kustomization file to create both config, secrets and the actual sidecar overlay could look something like below:

```yaml
apiVersion: kustomize.config.k8s.io/v1beta1
kind: Kustomization

# Point to deployment to be patched with the TLS terminating sidecar
resources:
- deployment.yaml

configMapGenerator:
- name: tls-terminator-conf
  behavior: create
  literals:
  - PROXY_LISTEN_PORT=8443
  - PROXY_UPSTREAM_PORT=80

secretGenerator:
- name: tls-terminator-cert
  files:
  - cert/tls.crt
  - cert/tls.key
  type: kubernetes.io/tls

patchesStrategicMerge:
- volume.yaml
- sidecar.yaml
```

Patching the deployment with the sidecar and any other needed resources is now as easy as:

```shell
$ kubectl apply -k kustomize/
configmap/tls-terminator-conf-d8f8ffgbg7 created
secret/tls-terminator-cert-76bkgtmk95 created
deployment.apps/my-awesome-app created
```

See the [kustomize](kustomize/) directory for the full example.

### Configuring service

The TLS terminating sidecar container should now be up and running, proxying TLS encrypted requests on port 8443 to port 80 on the main container. As the pods are normally exposed through a kubernetes service, we'll need to make it route traffic to our sidecar container for TLS traffic. Given an existing service looking something like this:

```yaml
apiVersion: v1
kind: Service
metadata:
  labels:
    app: my-awesome-app
spec:
  clusterIP: 10.108.119.63
  ports:
  - name: http
    port: 80
    protocol: TCP
    targetPort: 80
  selector:
    app: my-awesome-app
```

All we'll need to do is to add handling to the port we configured for our sidecar (8443) - we'll also normally want to expose this on the regular HTTPS port, 443:

```yaml
- name: https
  port: 443
  protocol: TCP
  targetPort: 8443
```

Commit message:

Add ACCESS_LOG_LOCATION option
Impove documentation with options table + minor other fixes.

README.md, after:

# nginx-tls-terminator

![build](https://github.com/anderseknert/nginx-tls-terminator/workflows/build/badge.svg)

**Single-purpose TLS terminating nginx proxy.**

Primary function is to run as a sidecar container in kubernetes pods where the app running in the main container either does not support TLS, or it's inconvenient to add it - such as for legacy apps or where the code is not under your control. Another common use case is when external traffic has TLS terminated by the ingress controller, but some internal services need to reach the same services from the inside on the same URL. One example of this is the issuer URL provided in OAuth2 and OpenID Connect, where both external and internal applications will need to query the same endpoints over a secure channel.

**Features:**
* Small single-purpose container at ~9 MB with minimal configuration needed.
* Does not require root privileges and runs as non-root user by default. Runs with strictest `securityContext` configured on the container.
* Running with a read-only root filesystem as easy as mounting a volume on `/tmp`.
* Exposed TLS port as well as target upstream port configurable through environment variables.

## Configuration options

| Option              | Default               | Description                                                                                     |
|---------------------|-----------------------|-------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------|
| PROXY_LISTEN_PORT   | 8443                  | Port to listen to for incoming HTTPS requests.                                                  |
| PROXY_UPSTREAM_PORT | 8080                  | Port to forward HTTP traffic to within pod.                                                     |
| ACCESS_LOG_LOCATION | /tmp/nginx.access.log | Location of access log. Use /dev/stdout to log to console, or /dev/null to discard access logs. |

## Usage instructions

### Obtaining a certificate

The first step to enable TLS for your service is to obtain a certificate. This can be done in a number of ways, such as:

* Using an established certificate authority, such as [Let's Encrypt](https://letsencrypt.org/).
* Generating a self-signed certificate (for testing).

More info on obtaining a certificate for use in kubernetes can be found in the [kubernetes docs](https://kubernetes.io/docs/tasks/tls/managing-tls-in-a-cluster/).

### Storing the certificate

Once a certificate has been obtained, you'll need to store it somewhere where the nginx-tls-terminatr can find it - normally a [kubernetes secret](https://kubernetes.io/docs/concepts/configuration/secret/). The secret consists of the certificate (`tls.crt`) and a signing key (`tls.key`) and is easily created with kubectl.

```shell
kubectl create secret tls tls-terminator-cert \
        --cert=path/to/cert/tls.crt \
        --key=path/to/cert/tls.key
```

### Adding the nginx-tls-terminator sidecar container

We'll now need to edit the deployment responsible for the pod you'll want to patch with TLS terminating capabilities. Given an example deployment like this:

```yaml
apiVersion: apps/v1
kind: Deployment
metadata:
  name: my-awesome-app
  labels:
    app: my-awesome-app
spec:
  selector:
    matchLabels:
      app: my-awesome-app
  template:
    metadata:
      labels:
        app: my-awesome-app
    spec:
      volumes:
      - name: tls-terminator-cert
        secret:
          secretName: tls-terminator-cert
      - name: tmp
        emptyDir: {}
      containers:
      - name: my-awesome-app-container
        image: my-awesome-app:1.2.3
        ports:
        - containerPort: 80
```

We will patch the pod spec to both mount the secret we created and of course inject our TLS terminating sidecar container. First, let's add the secret to our pod spec (under `spec.template.spec`):

```yaml
volumes:
- name: tls-terminator-cert
  secret:
    secretName: tls-terminator-cert
```
Then, add the nginx-tls-terminator sidecar container mounting the secret volume created above (under `spec.template.spec.containers`):

```yaml
- name: nginx-tls-terminator
  image: eknert/nginx-tls-terminator:0.5.0
  ports:
  - containerPort: 8443
  volumeMounts:
  - mountPath: /etc/nginx/ssl
    name: tls-terminator-cert
    readOnly: true
  - mountPath: /tmp
    name: tmp
  securityContext:
    allowPrivilegeEscalation: false
    runAsNonRoot: true
    runAsUser: 2000
    runAsGroup: 2000
    readOnlyRootFilesystem: true
    capabilities:
      drop:
      - all
  env:
  - name: PROXY_LISTEN_PORT
    value: "1234" # OPTIONAL: Defaults to 8443
  - name: PROXY_UPSTREAM_PORT
    value: "80"   # OPTIONAL: Default to 8080
```

For all available versions/tags, see [Docker Hub](https://hub.docker.com/r/eknert/nginx-tls-terminator).

### Kustomize

Repeating the above steps for multiple deployments is bound to be time consuming. We can both structure and simplify the process with the help of [kustomize](https://kustomize.io/). An example kustomization file to create both config, secrets and the actual sidecar overlay could look something like below:

```yaml
apiVersion: kustomize.config.k8s.io/v1beta1
kind: Kustomization

# Point to deployment to be patched with the TLS terminating sidecar
resources:
- deployment.yaml

configMapGenerator:
- name: tls-terminator-conf
  behavior: create
  literals:
  - PROXY_LISTEN_PORT=8443
  - PROXY_UPSTREAM_PORT=80

secretGenerator:
- name: tls-terminator-cert
  files:
  - cert/tls.crt
  - cert/tls.key
  type: kubernetes.io/tls

patchesStrategicMerge:
- volume.yaml
- sidecar.yaml
```

Patching the deployment with the sidecar and any other needed resources is now as easy as:

```shell
$ kubectl apply -k kustomize/
configmap/tls-terminator-conf-d8f8ffgbg7 created
secret/tls-terminator-cert-76bkgtmk95 created
deployment.apps/my-awesome-app created
```

See the [kustomize](kustomize/) directory for the full example.

### Configuring service

The TLS terminating sidecar container should now be up and running, proxying TLS encrypted requests on port 8443 to port 80 on the main container. As the pods are normally exposed through a kubernetes service, we'll need to make it route traffic to our sidecar container for TLS traffic. Given an existing service looking something like this:

```yaml
apiVersion: v1
kind: Service
metadata:
  labels:
    app: my-awesome-app
spec:
  clusterIP: 10.108.119.63
  ports:
  - name: http
    port: 80
    protocol: TCP
    targetPort: 80
  selector:
    app: my-awesome-app
```

All we'll need to do is to add handling to the port we configured for our sidecar (8443) - we'll also normally want to expose this on the regular HTTPS port, 443:

```yaml
- name: https
  port: 443
  protocol: TCP
  targetPort: 8443
```
